“Prior to the Internet, the adage was ‘Think before you act’ . . . But now it’s ‘Think before you upload, think before you tweet” 
SO,TODAY THE TOPIC FOR MY SPEECH IS SOCIAL MEDIA.
BASICALLY,Social media is the collective of online communications channels dedicated to community-based input, interaction,content
-sharing and collaboration.


THESE ARE THE Websites and applications dedicated to forums, microblogging, social networking, social bookmarking, social curation,
and wikis are among the different types of social media.


Social media is becoming an integral part of life online as social websites and applications proliferate. Most traditional online
 media include social components, such as comment fields for users. 
 AS THE SIDES OF A COIN, SOCIAL MEDIA ALSO, COMES WITH TWO FACES-THE GOOD ONE AND THE BAD ONE. INFACT EVERYTHING AT OUR DISPOSAL 
 COMES WITH BOTH PROS AND CONS BUT IT OUR DUTY TO REALIZE THE BEST FOR OURSELVES. SIMILAR GOES WITH SOCIAL MEDIA.AS ONE HEARS THE 
 TERM FIRST THOUGHT THAT USUALLY POPS UP IS IN A WAY NEGATIVE THOUGH WE KNOW IT HAS BECOME AN INTEGRAL PART OF OUR TODAY'S LIVES.
 
 I am sure most of us have heard the argument for and against the use of social media.  The dangers to privacy, the risk of 
 cyberbullying, the surface level communication of ideas, and the detraction from meaningful relationships and distractions in
 social situations are touted as some of the dangers of social media. Some MAY argue THAT  the rise of social media
 “made the world smaller but at same time pulled us farther apart.” We certainly have the ability for more interactions—but are 
 they more meaningful?
 Others argue for the increase of available information and news, giving a voice to those otherwise voiceless, a platform for 
 activism and mobilization, and a broadened ability to engage with both the culture and people of like-minded interests online.
 SO COMING BACK TO THE START I FEEL

 CONTINUE WITH YESTERDAYS SPEECH-------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 Social media is a fantastic way to get people to express themselves. Whether it it be via a Facebook status, writing on walls
 , Twitter updates, photos you share, these are all extensions of you and your personality. They help portray your interests, your
 views and help show people who you are. They offer a platform for you to be yourself, to be creative, to be who you want to be 
 and most importantly, have an audience for all of this.

Unlike in the real world, where social etiquette and manners can sometimes seem restrictive and limiting , people feel they have 
a greater sense of freedom of expression and/or of speech when using online networks. Of course, content is monitored and can be 
removed, but with millions of users on sites such as Facebook and Twitter, even YouTube, not every single status, photo or comment
 can be watched, evaluated and completely controlled. This has arguably lead to a rise in expressions, feelings and ideas from
 people who may otherwise find it hard to portray themselves how they would like in person and face-to-face with others.

Essentially, social media has changed the way we are able to communicate and behave, not only in groups and society, but with each
 other.

What are the possible consequences of this new found, or at least newly perceived, freedom of expression?

For people who find it difficult to interact with others in person, the Internet gives them a great way of communicating and not 
having to feel self conscious or nervous. Everyone has a the right to say what they think and feel and so this is a good way for 
those less confident to make their stand. It provides a level playing field if you like. When someone feels happy and comfortable,
 they can express themselves more eloquently and possibly even gain themselves a wide audience which they may otherwise have
 found difficult to achieve. Why stand in front of hundreds of people and talk if you find that hard, when you can sit at home
 behind a screen and write about your topics and still get the audience?

Whether it is personal or business, such as marketing, you can get your news and views out there. Arguably, it is just as, or 
even more effective, than a conference room. The power of the re-tweet or Like buttons should not be scowled at. This means that 
the story or a view of a shy individual can reach a larger audience than it might if they were stood up in front if you making 
this type of media particularly effective.

Social media can help you be your self and invoke confidence to those who need it. This is because you are not having to face 
personal and intimate criticism or nerves because you do not have to see anyone who may be critical about you. Written comments 
can inspire healthy debate as you have time to compose yourself, whereas, people criticising you in person can be difficult, 
cause you to panic and cause you to be defensive. Everyone deserves to have confidence in themselves and their beliefs, and
 networking can help inspire and educate people in this.
 
 AT LAST, I WOULD LIKE TO SAY THE CHOICE OF OUR ACTIONS LIES WITH US, SO LETS MAKE RIGHTFUL DECISIONS FOR OURSELVES.
 THANKYOU.